Coffee, as a perennial commodity crop, plays a crucial role in global agricultural markets, regional livelihoods, and poverty alleviation. Coffee from Yunnan, China’s primary coffee-producing region, is receiving increasing attention from the global market. However, the lack of a high-resolution coffee distribution map has limited environmental research and policy-making efforts related to coffee cultivation. We utilized Sentinel-2 optical data and Shuttle Radar Topographic Mission (SRTM) topographic data from the Google Earth Engine (GEE) platform to generate the first 10-meter resolution coffee distribution map of Yunnan in 2023. By employing object-based Simple Non-Iterative Clustering (SNIC) segmentation and a Deep Neural Network (DNN) classifier, we achieved an overall accuracy (OA) of 0.87, with user accuracy (UA), producer accuracy (PA), and F1 score of 0.90, 0.96, and 0.93, respectively. This dataset provides a valuable foundation for advancing research on deforestation, sustainable development, and livelihood protection related to coffee cultivation in Yunnan. Additionally, it facilitates modelling the relationship between coffee distribution and climate change in the region. 

This study has been financially supported by the joint project of National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC, 72261147759) and Bill Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF, 2022YFAG1004) and State key laboratory of remote sensing science and Beijing engineering research centre for global land remote sensing products (OF202411).

"2023_yunnan_coffee_10m.tif" is a 10 meter coffee distribution data directly calculated based on remote sensing images provided by the GEE platform. A value of 1 indicates the presence of coffee at that location, while a value of 0 indicates the absence of coffee. 2023_yunnan_coffee_1km.tif" is the proportion of coffee area in a 1km grid obtained by aggregating the previous 10m coffee distribution data. The numerical range is 0~1, where 0 indicates that there is no coffee in the 1km grid and 1 indicates that all coffee is present in the 1km grid.

"mdl_pars.pth" is the parameter of the DNN model with the highest accuracy. "coffee-map-DL-GEE.ipynb" is the code file used for training and predicting models.

'data_train.rar' and 'data_test.rar' are the training data and testing data used by the model, which are decompressed into ESRI shapefile format files. The 'class_2typ' column contains category information with 0 represents coffee, 1 represents non-coffee. The column starting with 's2_' represents the value of Sentinel-2 band at that point, and suffixes 0~4 in column names respectively indicate median value of March (flowering onset), April to October (wet season, fruit development), November (fruit maturation), December to January (ripening and early dormancy), and February (late dormancy).
